Vonk/4.0.0 (#148)
FirelyTeam/firely-docs: firelyserver/releasenotes/releasenotes.rst

.. _upgrade_vonk:

Upgrading Firely Server
-----------------------

See :ref:`upgrade` for information on how to upgrade to a new version of Firely Server.

.. _vonk_releasenotes_400:

Release 4.0.0
-------------

This major version introduces a new name: **Firely Server** instead of Vonk. Other than that, this release contains some significant code changes, which could impact you if you run Firely Server with your own plugins.

Features
^^^^^^^^

#. Name change Vonk -> Firely Server:

>    #. The main entry point dll (formerly: ``Vonk.Server.dll``) and executable (formerly: ``Vonk.Server.exe``) names have been changed to ``Firely.Server.dll`` and ``Firely.Server.exe`` respectively.

Reviewer: The default license file was also renamed to `firelyserver-license.json`, which will break if you used the old vonk-license.json name.

>    #. The name was changed in the CapabilityStatement.name.

Reviewer: But not in `.software.name`?

```
  "software": {
    "name": "Vonk",
    "version": "4.0.0",
    "releaseDate": "2021-01-29T08:16:38+01:00"
  },
  ```

>    #. The name of the download zip (from Simplifier) has changed from `vonk_distribution.zip` to `firely-server-latest.zip`. Likewise the versioned zip files have changed as well.

Reviewer: That does not seem to be the case: https://downloads.simplifier.net/vonk/versions/

#. We have implemented FHIR Bulk Data Access (``$export``) to allow for fast, asynchronous ndjson data exports. The :ref:`Bulk Data Export documentation<feature_bulkdataexport>` can help you to get started.
#. Firely Server now uses Firely .NET SDK 2.0.2 (formerly: FHIR .NET API)

   .. attention::
   

>       If you are running Firely Server with your own self-made plugins, you will likely encounter package versioning problems and need to upgrade your NuGet Firely Server package references (package names starting with ``Vonk.``) to version 4.0.0. You also need to upgrade any Firely .NET SDK package references (package names starting with ``Hl7.Fhir.``) to version 2.0.2. The `Firely .NET SDK release notes <https://github.com/FirelyTeam/firely-net-sdk/releases>`_ and `Breaking changes in Firely SDK 2.0 <https://github.com/FirelyTeam/firely-net-sdk/wiki/Breaking-changes-in-2.0>`_ can give you an idea of the changes you may encounter in the SDK.

Reviewer: This makes it sound like it's a bad thing to do, which we don't mean. I recommend:

```suggestion
      In case you've tailored your Firely Server with custom plugins, you will also need to upgrade your NuGet Firely Server package references (package names starting with ``Vonk.``) to version ``4.0.0``. You also need to upgrade any Firely .NET SDK package references (package names starting with ``Hl7.Fhir.``) to version 2.0.2. The `Firely .NET SDK release notes <https://github.com/FirelyTeam/firely-net-sdk/releases>`_ and `Breaking changes in Firely SDK 2.0 <https://github.com/FirelyTeam/firely-net-sdk/wiki/Breaking-changes-in-2.0>`_ can give you an idea of the changes you may encounter in the SDK.
```

#. SMART on FHIR can now recognize prefixes to the claims, see its :ref:`feature_accesscontrol_config`.

> #. The smart-configuration endpoint (`<url>/.well-known/smart-configuration`) relays the signature algorithms configured in the authorization server.

Reviewer: This can be confused with the authorization server's own .well-known statement - I recommend:

```suggestion
#. The Firely Server's smart-configuration endpoint (`<url>/.well-known/smart-configuration`) relays the signature algorithms configured in the authorization server.
```

Fixes
^^^^^

#. Application Insights has now been disabled by default. If you need Application Insights, you can enable it in your log settings file by including the entire section mentioned in :ref:`Application Insights log settings<configure_log_insights>`.
#. When validating a resource, a non-existing code would lead to an OperationOutcome.issue with the code ``code-invalid``. That issue code has been changed to ``not-supported``.

> #. On a batch or transaction bundle errors were not reported clearly if the entry in error had no fullUrl element. We fixed this by referring to the index of the entry in the entry array, and the resourcetype of the resource in the entry (if any).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In a batch or transaction bundle, errors were not reported clearly if the entry in error had no fullUrl element. We fixed this by referring to the index of the entry in the entry array, and the resourcetype of the resource in the entry (if any).
```

#. The ``import[.R4]`` folder allows for importing custom StructureDefinition resources. If any of them had no id, the error on that caused an exception. Fixed that.
#. If a Facade returned a resource without an id from the Create method, an error was caused by a log statement. Fixed that.

> #. Indexing ``Subscription.channel[0].endpoint[0]`` failed for R4. Fixed that. This means you can't search for existing Subscriptions by ``Subscription.url`` on the /administration endpoint for FHIR R4.

Reviewer: Can't or can?
